watchtower/README.md, before:

The `agave-watchtower` program is used to monitor the health of a cluster.  It
periodically polls the cluster over an RPC API to confirm that the transaction
count is advancing, new blockhashes are available, and no validators are
delinquent.  Results are reported as InfluxDB metrics, with an optional push
notification on sanity failure.

If you only care about the health of one specific validator, the
`--validator-identity` command-line argument can be used to restrict failure
notifications to issues only affecting that validator.

If you do not want duplicate notifications, for example if you have elected to
receive notifications by SMS the
`--no-duplicate-notifications` command-line argument will suppress identical
failure notifications.

### Metrics
#### `watchtower-sanity`
On every iteration this data point will be emitted indicating the overall result
using a boolean `ok` field.

#### `watchtower-sanity-failure`
On failure this data point contains details about the specific test that failed via
the following fields:
* `test`: name of the sanity test that failed
* `err`: exact sanity failure message

Commit message:

Support multiple RPC URLs in watchtower (#4748)
* Accepting multiple urls in watchtower

* Getting data from multiple endpoints

* Collect and report multiple failures, add watchtower-reliability alert

* Take exactly 1 or 3 URLs in watchtower

* Make failure mesasge order stable, concatenate msgs for thresh skip

* Send concatenated msg to the notifier

* Cleaup: use original tuple instead of EndpointFailure

* Ignoring failures if num_healthy >= min_agreeing_endpoints

* Bring watchtower readme up to date

* Unrealiability takes priority over other failures, trigger unrealiability if results are inconsistent

* Add some minor fixes

* Implement endpoint validation

* Fix clippy issues

watchtower/README.md, after:

The `agave-watchtower` program is used to monitor the health of a cluster. It
periodically polls the cluster over an RPC API to confirm that the transaction
count is advancing, new blockhashes are available, and no validators are
delinquent. Results are reported as InfluxDB metrics, with an optional push
notification on sanity failure.

If you only care about the health of several specific validators, the
`--validator-identity` command-line argument can be used to restrict failure
notifications to issues only affecting that set of validators.

User can provide either 1 or 3 RPC URLs for the cluster via the `--url` or `--urls`
command-line arguments respectively. 2 URLs are not accepted because it's not enough
to have redundnacy, and more than 3 URLs are not accepted because there's little
benefit from having more than 3. If 3 URLs are provided, at least 2 of them have to
confirm health of a cluster.

### Metrics
#### `watchtower-sanity`
On every iteration this data point will be emitted indicating the overall result
using a boolean `ok` field.

#### `watchtower-sanity-failure`
On failure this data point contains details about the specific test that failed via
the following fields:
* `test`: name of the sanity test that failed
* `err`: exact sanity failure message
